Add authentication docs from the customer perspective (#1931)
NuGet/docs.microsoft.com-nuget: docs/consume-packages/consuming-packages-authenticated-feeds.md

---
title: Consuming packages from authenticated feeds
description: Consuming packages from authenticated feeds in all NuGet client scenarios
author: nkolev92
ms.author: nikolev
ms.date: 02/28/2020
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Consuming packages from authenticated feeds

> In addition to the nuget.org [public feeds](https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json), the NuGet clients have the ability to interact with file feeds and private http feeds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the nuget.org [public feed](https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json), NuGet clients have the ability to interact with file feeds and private http feeds.

```

To authenticate with private feeds, the 2 approaches are:

* Add credentials in the [NuGet.Config](../reference/nuget-config-file.md#packagesourcecredentials)
* Authenticate using one of the many extensibility models depending on the client used.

## NuGet clients' authentication extensibility

In the NuGet clients' the authentication responsibility is pushed to the private feed provider.

> Specifically all NuGet clients have extensibility methods, that's either a Visual Studio extension or a plugin that can communicates with NuGet to retrieve credentials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the various NuGet clients, the private feed provider itself is responsible for authentication.
All NuGet clients have extensibility methods to support this. These are either a Visual Studio extension or a plugin that can communicate with NuGet to retrieve credentials.

```

### Visual Studio

> In Visual Studio, NuGet exposes an interface that feed providers can implement and provide to their customers. For more information on [how to create](../reference/extensibility/NuGet-Credential-Providers-for-Visual-Studio.md) a Visual Studio credential provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Visual Studio, NuGet exposes an interface that feed providers can implement and provide to their customers. For more details, please refer to the documentation on [how to create a Visual Studio credential provider](../reference/extensibility/NuGet-Credential-Providers-for-Visual-Studio.md).

```

#### Available NuGet credential providers for Visual Studio

> There is a credential provider built into the Visual Studio NuGet extension to support Visual Studio Team Services.

Reviewer 2: I'm confused -- I thought VSTS had been renamed to ADO?

Author: My bad, I thought I fixed the references

> There is a credential provider built into the Visual Studio NuGet extension to support Visual Studio Team Services.

Author: yeah, good point, fixed.

> There is a credential provider built into the Visual Studio to support Azure DevOps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a credential provider built into Visual Studio to support Azure DevOps.

```

Available plug-in credential providers include:

> * [MyGet Credential Provider for Visual Studio](http://docs.myget.org/docs/reference/credential-provider-for-visual-studio)

Reviewer 2: I would prefer that you either add another item to this list, or replace this list with "The only currently available plug-in credential provider is [MyGet... ](...)`. It's strange to have single-item lists.

Author: > The only currently available

That's not necessarily true. 
It merely means that other providers have not asked us to add a link to their source. 
I can remove the numbered list though...itemized list is enough. 
I'll push and then you can let me know what you think.

Reviewer 2: I guess it's fine for now. This was a nit anyway :)

### nuget.exe

When `nuget.exe` needs credentials to authenticate with a feed, it looks for them in the following manner:

> 1. Look for credentials in `Nuget.Config` files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Look for credentials in `NuGet.config` files.
```

Author: Fixed...all this is so inconsistent throughout our docs.

Author: https://github.com/NuGet/docs.microsoft.com-nuget/issues/1933

1. Use V2 plug-in credential providers subject to the ordering below.

> 1. Use V1 plug-in credential providers, subject to the ordering below.

Reviewer 2: below? Where? Can you link to the section you're referring to?

Reviewer: I'd just remove the "subject to the ordering below" from both lines. I expect customers will naturally look further down the page to find more information about it. Otherwise, how does the ordering relate to the credentials in the nuget.config file?

Author: I removed the subject to ordering below. 

I think there's value in keeping the exact ordering.

1. NuGet then prompts the user for credentials on the command line.

#### nuget.exe and V2 credential providers

In version `4.8` NuGet defined an authentication plugin mechanism that works in all clients.

> For the installation and discovery of those providers, refer to [NuGet cross platform plugins](../reference/extensibility/NuGet-Cross-Platform-Plugins.md#plugin-installation-and-discovery).

Reviewer: "all clients" is confusing since the title says "nuget.exe".

edit: in `docs/reference/extensibility/nuget-exe-Credential-Providers.md` it says that it works in all command line clients, but this doc suggests it should also work in VS?

Author: It does...I removed it. 
These plugins working in VS is something irrelevant for authentication purposes. While technically true, it will just add confusion to the end customers, so as such I think I'll leave it out.

#### nuget.exe and V1 credential providers

In version `3.3` NuGet introduced the first version of authentication plugins.
For the installation and discovery of those providers refer to [nuget.exe credential providers](../reference/extensibility/nuget-exe-Credential-Providers.md#nugetexe-credential-provider-discovery)

#### Available credential providers for nuget.exe

> 1. [Azure DevOps V2 Credential Providers](azure/devops/artifacts/nuget/nuget-exe?view=azure-devops#add-a-feed-to-nuget-482-or-later) or [Azure Artifacts Credential Provider](https://github.com/microsoft/artifacts-credprovider)

Reviewer 2: should this be two items?

Author: It's one, they are the same thing, but one is if you are using the Azure DevOps tasks, but the other one is if you want to get the plugin your self. 

Thoughts/ideas on how to improve or you think this is fine?

Reviewer 2: That's fine, then :)

> With Visual Studio 2017 Update 9 and later, the Azure DevOps credential provider is bundled in Visual Studio.

Reviewer: I haven't seen "Visual Studio xxxx Update y" used since Visual Studio 2015. Even [VS's release notes](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/visualstudio/releasenotes/vs2017-relnotes) call it "Visual Studio 2017 version 15.9"

```suggestion
With Visual Studio 2017 version 15.9 and later, the Azure DevOps credential provider is bundled in Visual Studio.
```

If `nuget.exe` uses MSBuild from that specific Visual Studio toolset, then the plugin will be discovered automatically.

### dotnet.exe

When `dotnet.exe` needs credentials to authenticate with a feed, it looks for them in the following manner:

1. Look for credentials in `Nuget.Config` files.

> 1. Use V2 plug-in credential providers subject to the ordering below.

Reviewer 2: See comment above about "ordering below".

Author: Fixed.
